# HackBio-Cancer-internship

## The Role of Transcriptomics in Biomarker Discovery of Cancer: 
## Author (@Slack): ##

Marwan Magdy Mohamed Elsaid (@Marwan16)

## The Concept of Transcriptomics and Its Types 

Transcriptomics examines the RNA transcripts generated by genes to understand the dynamic gene expression patterns and is employed to explore human diseases at the molecular level. It has led to the discovery of numerous molecular biomarkers for various human conditions due to its high throughput, rapid detection, simple analysis, and cost-effectiveness. Currently, gene expression microarray and high-throughput RNA-sequencing are widely utilized in transcriptomics research to analyze the quantification of gene expression levels and allele-specific expression in a single experiment, study splice isoforms and fusion transcripts, and investigate non-coding RNA in unprecedented detail.

## Types : ##

1. Spatial transcriptomics (ST) : is the study and quantification of messenger RNA (mRNA) transcripts as a surrogate for gene expression in the spatial context of cancer and the associated microenvironment.
2. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) : provides insights into the heterogeneity of tissue samples and cell populations.
3. Bulk transcriptomic approach is the loss of a cell type-specific understanding and spatial context of gene expression.

## Importance of Transcriptomics in Biomarker Discovery of Cancer : ##

1. In cancer research, spatial transcriptomics has already provided novel insights into cancer metastasis, prognosis, the microenvironment in which they are found, and immunotherapy responsiveness.
2. The ability to preserve spatial information is now possible, as it allows us to capture tumor heterogeneity and multifocality.
3. Transcriptomics involves the comprehensive analysis of RNA transcripts, which reflects gene expression levels in cells. By comparing the transcriptomes of cancerous tissues to normal tissues, researchers can identify genes that are differentially expressed. These genes may serve as potential biomarkers for cancer diagnosis, prognosis, or therapeutic response.

## Condition: The Role of Spatial Transcriptomics in Glioblastoma ##

Spatial transcriptomics (ST) has played a critical role in the understanding of glioblastoma (GBM), a highly treatment-resistant brain tumor. It enables the mapping of gene expression within the spatial context of the tumor microenvironment.
Glioblastoma (GBM) patients revealed that T-cell dysfunction was associated with an increased response to interleukin 10 (IL-10)-releasing HMOX1+ myeloid cells, contributing to immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME).

## Conclusion : ##

The transcriptomics is important in prediction. It also plays a major role in detecting cancer biomarkers. Spatial transcriptomics allowed us to visualize the spatial expression of genes in human tissue.

## References : ##

1.Yang, X., Kui, L., Tang, M., Li, D., Wei, K., Chen, W., Miao, J., & Dong, Y. (2020). High-Throughput Transcriptome Profiling in Drug and Biomarker Discovery. Frontiers in genetics, 11, 19. 
  https://doi.org/10.3389/fgene.2020.00019
  
2.Casamassimi, A., Federico, A., Rienzo, M., Esposito, S., & Ciccodicola, A. (2017). Transcriptome Profiling in Human Diseases: New Advances and Perspectives. International journal of molecular sciences, 18(8), 
  1652. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms18081652
  
3.Cilento, M. A., Sweeney, C. J., & Butler, L. M. (2024). Spatial transcriptomics in cancer research and potential clinical impact: a narrative review. Journal of cancer research and clinical oncology, 150(6), 
  296. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00432-024-05816-0
  
4.Ravi, V. M., Neidert, N., Will, P., Joseph, K., Maier, J. P., Kückelhaus, J., Vollmer, L., Goeldner, J. M., Behringer, S. P., Scherer, F., Boerries, M., Follo, M., Weiss, T., Delev, D., Kernbach, J., Franco, 
  P., Schallner, N., Dierks, C., Carro, M. S., Hofmann, U. G., … Heiland, D. H. (2022). T-cell dysfunction in the glioblastoma microenvironment is mediated by myeloid cells releasing interleukin-10. Nature 
  communications, 13(1), 925. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-28523-1

